[{"name": "Single Leg Push-off", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "quadriceps", "equipment": "other", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "Stand on the ground with one foot resting on the box, heel close to the edge. Push off with your foot on top of the box, trying to gain as much height as possible by extending through the hip and knee. Land with the same foot on top of the box, returning your other foot back to the start position."}, {"name": "Side-to-side box skip", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "quadriceps", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Stand to one side of the box with your left foot resting on the middle of it. To begin, jump up and over to the other side of the box, landing with your right foot on top of the box and your left foot on the floor. Swing your arms to aid your movement. Continue shuffling back and forth across the box."}, {"name": "Mountain climber", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "abdominals", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Begin in a pushup position, with your weight supported by your hands and toes. Flexing the knee and hip, bring one leg until the knee is approximately under the hip. This will be your starting position. Explosively reverse the positions of your legs, extending the bent leg until the leg is straight and supported by the toe, and bringing the other foot up with the hip and knee flexed. Repeat in an alternating fashion for 20-30 seconds."}, {"name": "Drop Push", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "chest", "equipment": "other", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "Position low boxes or other platforms 2-3 feet apart. Move to a pushup position between them, supporting yourself by placing your hands on the boxes. With good posture, drop from the platforms by pressing up and moving your hands to shoulder width, cushioning your landing by absorbing the impact through the arm."}, {"name": "Double Leg Butt Kick", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "quadriceps", "equipment": "None", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Begin standing with your knees slightly bent. Quickly squat a short distance, flexing the hips and knees, and immediately extend to jump for maximum vertical height. As you go up, tuck your heels by flexing the knees, attempting to touch the buttocks. Finish the motion by landing with the knees only partially bent, using your legs to absorb the impact."}, {"name": "Broad jump", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "quadriceps", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "This drill is best done in sand or other soft landing surface. Ensure that you are able to measure distance. Stand in a partial squat stance with feet shoulder width apart. Utilizing a big arm swing and a countermovement of the legs, jump forward as far as you can. Attempt to land with your feet out in front you, reaching as far as possible with your legs. Measure the distance from your landing point to the starting point and track results."}, {"name": "Sledgehammer swing", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "abdominals", "equipment": "other", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "You will need a tire and a sledgehammer for this exercise. Stand in front of the tire about two feet away from it with a staggered stance. Grip the sledgehammer. If you are right handed, your left hand should be at the bottom of the handle, and your right hand should be choking up closer to the head. As you bring the sledge up, your right hand slides toward the head; as you swing down, your right hand will slide down to join your left hand. Slam it down as hard as you can against the tire. Control the bounce of the hammer off of the tire. Repeat on the other side."}, {"name": "Box jump", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "hamstrings", "equipment": "other", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "Begin with a box of an appropriate height 1-2 feet in front of you. Stand with your feet should width apart. This will be your starting position. Perform a short squat in preparation for jumping, swinging your arms behind you. Rebound out of this position, extending through the hips, knees, and ankles to jump as high as possible. Swing your arms forward and up. Land on the box with the knees bent, absorbing the impact through the legs. You can jump from the box back to the ground, or preferably step down one leg at a time."}, {"name": "Scissors Jump", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "quadriceps", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "expert", "instructions": "Assume a lunge stance position with one foot forward with the knee bent, and the rear knee nearly touching the ground. Ensure that the front knee is over the midline of the foot. Extending through both legs, jump as high as possible, swinging your arms to gain lift. As you jump as high as you can, switch the position of your legs, moving your front leg to the back and the rear leg to the front. As you land, absorb the impact through the legs by adopting the lunge position, and repeat."}, {"name": "Jumping jack-", "type": "plyometrics", "muscle": "quadriceps", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Start by standing with your feet together. In one motion, jump your feet out to the side and raise your arms above your head. Immediately reverse the motion by jumping back to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions."}]