[{"name": "Hip Circles (Prone)", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "abductors", "equipment": "None", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Position yourself on your hands and knees on the ground. Maintaining good posture, raise one bent knee off of the ground. This will be your starting position. Keeping the knee in a bent position, rotate the femur in an arc, attempting to make a big circle with your knee. Perform this slowly for a number of repetitions, and repeat on the other side."}, {"name": "Standing Hip Circles", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "abductors", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "Begin standing on one leg, holding to a vertical support. Raise the unsupported knee to 90 degrees. This will be your starting position. Open the hip as far as possible, attempting to make a big circle with your knee. Perform this movement slowly for a number of repetitions, and repeat on the other side."}, {"name": "Groiners", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "adductors", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "Begin in a pushup position on the floor. This will be your starting position. Using both legs, jump forward landing with your feet next to your hands. Keep your head up as you do so. Return to the starting position and immediately repeat the movement, continuing for 10-20 repetitions."}, {"name": "Stomach Vacuum", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "abdominals", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "To begin, stand straight with your feet shoulder width apart from each other. Place your hands on your hips. This is the starting position. Now slowly inhale as much air as possible and then start to exhale as much as possible while bringing your stomach in as much as possible and hold this position. Try to visualize your navel touching your backbone. One isometric contraction is around 20 seconds. During the 20 second hold, try to breathe normally. Then inhale and bring your stomach back to the starting position. Once you have practiced this exercise, try to perform this exercise for longer than 20 seconds. Tip: You can work your way up to 40-60 seconds. Repeat for the recommended amount of sets."}, {"name": "Side Wrist Pull", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "shoulders", "equipment": "none", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "This stretch works best standing. Cross your left arm over the midline of your body and hold the left wrist in your right hand down at the level of your hips. Start the stretch with a bent left arm. Slowly straighten, pull, and lift it up to shoulder height, as pictured. Feel this stretch originate in your back, not your shoulders, and don't pull too hard on the shoulders joint. Switch sides."}, {"name": "Standing leg swing", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "hamstrings", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "beginner", "instructions": "Stand next to a chair or other support, holding on with one hand. Swing your leg forward, keeping the leg straight. Continue with a downward swing, bringing the leg as far back as your flexibility allows. Repeat 5-10 times, and then switch legs."}, {"name": "Superman", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "lower_back", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "To begin, lie straight and face down on the floor or exercise mat. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you. This is the starting position. Simultaneously raise your arms, legs, and chest off of the floor and hold this contraction for 2 seconds. Tip: Squeeze your lower back to get the best results from this exercise. Remember to exhale during this movement. Note: When holding the contracted position, you should look like superman when he is flying. Slowly begin to lower your arms, legs and chest back down to the starting position while inhaling. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions prescribed in your program.  Variations: You can also perform this exercise using one arm and leg at a time. Simply elevating your left leg, arm and side of your chest and do the same with the right side."}, {"name": "Iliotibial band SMR", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "abductors", "equipment": "foam_roll", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Lay on your side, with the bottom leg placed onto a foam roller between the hip and the knee. The other leg can be crossed in front of you. Place as much of your weight as is tolerable onto your bottom leg; there is no need to keep your bottom leg in contact with the ground. Be sure to relax the muscles of the leg you are stretching. Roll your leg over the foam from you hip to your knee, pausing for 10-30 seconds at points of tension. Repeat with the opposite leg."}, {"name": "Windmills", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "abductors", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Lie on your back with your arms extended out to the sides and your legs straight. This will be your starting position. Lift one leg and quickly cross it over your body, attempting to touch the ground near the opposite hand. Return to the starting position, and repeat with the opposite leg. Continue to alternate for 10-20 repetitions."}, {"name": "Leg-Up Hamstring Stretch", "type": "stretching", "muscle": "hamstrings", "equipment": "body_only", "difficulty": "intermediate", "instructions": "Lie flat on your back, bend one knee, and put that foot flat on the floor to stabilize your spine. Extend the other leg in the air. If you're tight, you wont be able to straighten it. That's okay. Extend the knee so that the sole of the lifted foot faces the ceiling (or as close as you can get it). Slowly straighten the legs as much as possible and then pull the leg toward your nose. Switch sides."}]